---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E1: UI Basics Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2024-01-30
published: true
labels:
  - ITM 352
---

## Browser History 1
	
<p>This first WOD was the most specific but the most tedious in my opinion, everything was straight forward and was just knowing what HTML tags you needed to execute a certain action. The first time I attempted it, I was able to finish is in the average time it just took me a minute to scroll back between the instructions and VS Code. Maybe Next time I could've just minimized the windows so I wouldn't have to scroll back and forth. On my second attempt I did not complete the attempt because I realized after the fact that I had spelt my .html tag incorrectly multiple times and so that's why the browser wasn't able to get.</p>

## Browser History 2 

<p>The second WOD tripped me up a little more than the first one. When writing the CSS I kept forgetting some of the syntax, specifically for the images. I kept forgetting the syntax because I had used a different command in the CSS sheet. After messing up a few times I watched the instruction video and then it hit me to use the float command which made writing the CSS a little simpler, this combined with the fact that I had attempted it three times before allowed me to fly through my fourth attempt.</p>

## Browser History 3

<p>The third WOD was a bit trickier, although it was less time consuming I spent the most attempts on this WOD for sure. I kept forgetting the CSS for the navigation bar so it took some repetition for me to remember it but I eventually got it and made it in Rx time. The third WOD to me represents what these WODs are all about, repetition until it makes sense to you and you can do it quickly.</p>

