---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E1: UI Basics Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2024-02-16
published: true
labels:
  - ITM 352
---

## Summary:
<p>Invoice1 entailed creating a sales receipt within a table comprising five different products along with their respective prices and quantities. Utilizing JS expressions and variables was imperative for dynamically computing values, avoiding static computations. On my final attempt, I successfully completed the task in just over 17 minutes.</p>

## Preparation:
<p>To prepare for Invoice1 and other WODs, I adopted a systematic approach. I commenced with a preliminary attempt, following the WOD steps while referencing relevant resources such as readings. This ensured that I had a clear understanding of the task requirements and how to apply the instructed techniques. Initially, tasks like declaring variables and computing subsequent values were straightforward. However, formatting and integrating variables into the table is where I ran into a bit of trouble. Despite all the readings and videos, the table took a while to make and sometimes spelling errors would make it take longer than necessary. After completing my first attempt I watched the solution video which enlightened me to use my resources and view the page source of the WOD to pull the code for the table in order to cut down on the time.</p>

## Performance:
<p>My first two attempts were relatively unsuccessful because while I eventually reached the desired outcome it took me above the Rx time. My drive to reach the Rx time was a contributing factor to why I was unsuccessful on my second attempt as I wrote some incorrect syntax for a few lines and it took me a while to go through, find, and fix all the syntax errors. Finally on my third attempt, probably because by then I had the keystrokes down, I was able to run through everything smoothly in RX time with little to no syntax errors and everything worked properly.</p>
