---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E4: Progress in Programming Report"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2024-04-14
published: true
labels:
  - ITM 352
---

## My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways:
<p> Relative to the beginning of the semester, my knowledge on programming has significantly increased, however that was because I had no knowledge prior. One of the concepts that I have become more comfortable with are if and else statements, they were a key part of getting assignment 1 finished and show up in many spots throughout my code, including my individual requirement to make a text box red if the quantity requested exceeded the quantity available. </p>
## I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:
<p> One of the more difficult concepts that I have encountered is figuring out where in the sequencing certain chunks of code can be written so they work properly, I often have the right code just in the wrong place which causes a lot of issues. I ran into this issue in my assignment 1 as well while trying to figure out my individual requirement. </p>
## I have learned a lot from doing WODs and I can do them without copying the screencast:
<p> The screencasts were definitely a big help in the beginning when I had no idea what I was doing but once the screencast went away it forced me to figure things out by myself. I remember struggling with invoice3 up until the deadline but through the struggle I came out with code that worked and the knowledge of how and why it worked. </p>
## The labs have help me learn and I am able to complete them with confidence:
<p> The labs have definitely helped me learn a lot through the course and I can complete them with confidence. The lab that I felt helped me the most was the algorithms lab, while I still struggle with where to place code. It helped give me a new perspective on how to approach beginning to write my code and how to better look for errors. </p>
## I learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1 and feel ready to work on Assignment 2:
<p> Assignment 1 was a struggle but I think that one of the key takeaways from assignment1. I feel confident that even if I run into problems there are resources there to help me persevere through those issues and produce a successful product. </p>
## I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:
<p> I believe that the one thing that could be added is a section on using AI, while peoples thoughts on using AI may be controversial it's no secret that a lot of students use it and so it might be a good idea to educate on how to use it effectively in the context of this class. </p>
## What helps me the most in class are (WODs, Labs, class website, screencasts, readings, quizzes, one on one help, working with classmates, etc.):
<p> I think three things helped me the most in this class, the WODs, the labs, and collaborating with fellow classmates. The labes helped to present the topic and get a general understanding of what we would be doing in the section. Next, the WODs would help me to actually do the concept because I, personally, learn better by doing things. Finally, collaborating with peers helped me a lot because we often get stuck on our own path which makes it very difficult to solve problems so having different perspectives helped me to solve those problems more efficiently.  </p>
