---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E4: Progress in Programming Report"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2024-04-14
published: true
labels:
  - ITM 352
---

##Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details
<p>Assignment 2 builds upon the ecommerce store that we made in Assignment 1. The main thing added is a login and registration page that also includes a JSON file in which the customer information is written to. For further detail click the link [here](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2_retrospective.html).</p>
##What did you learn from this assignment?
<p>I learned a number of things from this assignment like how to pass things along a query string but I think one of the most interesting things I took from this assignment was having user input written to a JSON file.</p>
##Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).
<p>Although I worked mostly independently, I did bounce ideas off of peers and get some help here and there with my server. I would say that the code is mostly mine and a little bit of collaborative code that I tweaked to fit my specific assignment.</p>
##How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?
<p>The main thing I struggled with was getting the errors to pop up after a faulty registration. I ended up getting some help from peers to see how they had done it. I took some ideas from their code and altered it to fit what I needed</p>
##How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1?
<p>Developing this assignment was different from assignment 1 because there were a lot more parts, you had to add in a login and registration page along with the javascript associated with it. Additionally, there was a lot of movement of information, even more so than assignment 1.</p>
##Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging
<p>I’d definitely say about 25% of the time went into thinking of how to do something, then only about 15-20% went into actually writing the code and then that leaves 55-60% in testing debugging.</p>
##Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?
<p>The thing that worked well in this project was getting the general architecture of the login and registration pages and getting the information to write to the JSON file. The things that didn't work out so well were getting the additional parameters and individual requirements working, it took quite a bit of time to get some of them to work properly.</p>
##If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?
<p>If I could go back in time and do things differently, I would have looked at this assignment earlier so I would have more preparation and time to really think about how I wanted to attack all of this. I think I became a bit overwhelmed near the end and so it got really tough for me.</p>
